python-test-samples/apigw-lambda-dynamodb/README.md, before:

[![python: 3.9](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.9-green)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.9-green)
[![AWS: DynamoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-DynamoDB-blueviolet)](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-DynamoDB-blueviolet)
[![test: unit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Test-Unit-blue)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Test-Unit-blue)
[![test: integration](https://img.shields.io/badge/Test-Integration-yellow)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Test-Integration-yellow)

# Python: Amazon Api Gateway, AWS Lambda, Amazon DynamoDB Example

## Introduction
This project contains automated test sample code samples for serverless applications written in Python. The project demonstrates several techniques for executing tests including mocking, emulation and testing in the cloud specifically when interacting with the Amazon DynamoDB service. Based on current tooling, we recommend customers **focus on testing in the cloud** as much as possible. 

The project uses the [AWS Serverless Application Model](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) (SAM) CLI for configuration, testing and deployment. 

---

## Contents
- [Python: Amazon Api Gateway, AWS Lambda, Amazon DynamoDB Example](#python-amazon-api-gateway-aws-lambda-amazon-dynamodb-example)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Contents](#contents)
  - [Key Files in the Project](#key-files-in-the-project)
  - [Sample project description](#sample-project-description)
  - [Testing Data Considerations](#testing-data-considerations)
  - [Run the Unit Test](#run-the-unit-test)
  - [Run the Integration Test](#run-the-integration-test)
---

## Key Files in the Project
  - [app.py](src/app.py) - Lambda handler code to test
  - [template.yaml](template.yaml) - SAM script for deployment
  - [mock_test.py](tests/unit/mock_test.py) - Unit test using mocks
  - [test_api_gateway.py](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py) - Integration tests on a live stack
  
[Top](#contents)

---

## Sample project description

The sample project allows a user to call an API endpoint generate a custom "hello" message, and also tracks the messages it generates.  A user provides an "id", which the endpoint uses to look up the person's name associated with that id, and generates a message.  The message is recorded in DynamoDB and also returned to the caller:

![Event Sequence](img/sequence.png)

This project consists of an [API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/), a single [AWS Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda) function, and a [Amazon DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb) table.

The DynamoDB Table is a [single-table design](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/creating-a-single-table-design-with-amazon-dynamodb/), as both the name lookup and the message tracking use the same table. The table schema is defined as follows:
* For all records, the "Partition Key" is the id.
* For name records, the "Sort Key" is set to a constant = "NAME#"
* For message history records, the "Sort Key" is set to "TS#" appended with the current date-time stamp.
* The payloads are in a field named "data".


[Top](#contents)

---

## Testing Data Considerations

Data persistence brings additional testing considerations.

First, the data store must be pre-populated with data to test certain functionality.  In our example, we need a valid `id` to retrieve a name to test our function.  Therefore, we will add data to the data stores prior to running the tests.  This data seeding operation is performed in the test setup.  

Second, the data store will be populated as a side-effect of our testing.  In our example, items of recorded "Hello" messages will be populated in our DynamoDB table.  To prevent unintended side-effects, we will clean-up data generated during the test execution.  This data cleaning operation is performed in the test tear-down.  

[Top](#contents)

---

## Run the Unit Test
[mock_test.py](tests/unit/mock_test.py) 

In the [unit test](tests/unit/mock_test.py), all references and calls to the DynamoDB service [are mocked on line 18](tests/unit/mock_test.py#L18).

The unit test establishes the DYNAMODB_TABLE_NAME environment
variable that the Lambda function uses to reference the DynamoDB table.  DYNAMODB_TABLE_NAME is definied in the [setUp method of test class in mock_test.py](tests/unit/mock_test.py#L54-55).   


In a unit test, you must create a mocked version of the DynamoDB table.  The example approach in the [setUp method of test class in mock_test.py](tests/unit/mock_test.py#L57-69) reads in the DynamoDB table schema directly the [SAM Template](template.yaml) so that the definition is maintained in one place.  Once the mocked table is created, test data is populated.

With the mocked DynamoDB table created and the DYNAMODB_TABLE_NAME set to the mocked table name, the Lambda function will use the mocked DynamoDB table when executing.

The [unit test tear-down](tests/unit/mock_test.py#L72-77) removes the mocked DynamoDB table and clears the DYNAMODB_TABLE_NAME environment variable.

To run the unit test, execute the following
```shell
# Create and Activate a Python Virtual Environment
# One-time setup
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ pip3 install virtualenv
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ python3 -m venv venv
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ source ./venv/bin/activate

# install dependencies
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ pip3 install -r tests/requirements.txt

# run unit tests with mocks
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ python3 -m pytest -s tests/unit  -v
```

[Top](#contents)

---

## Run the Integration Test
[test_api_gateway.py](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py) 

For integration tests, the full stack is deployed before testing:
```shell
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ sam build
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ sam deploy --guided
```
 
The [integration test](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py) setup determins both the [API endpoint](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py#L48-52) and the name of the [DynamoDB table]tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py#L48-52) and the name of the [DynamoDB table](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py#L55-58) in the stack.  

The integration test then [populates data into the DyanamoDB table](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py#L59-64).

The [integration test tear-down](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py#L67-81) removes the seed data, as well as data generated during the test.

To run the integration test, create the environment variable "AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME" with the name of the test stack, and execute the test.

```shell
# Set the environment variable AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME 
# to match the name of the stack you will test

apigw-lambda-dynamodb$  AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME=<stack-name> python -m pytest -s tests/integration -v
```

[Top](#contents)

---

Commit message:

FEAT Add test data isolation, BUG Exception swallow- allow to raise, DOC advise on intrinsics when using template.yaml to build DDB table.

python-test-samples/apigw-lambda-dynamodb/README.md, after:

[![python: 3.9](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.9-green)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.9-green)
[![AWS: DynamoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-DynamoDB-blueviolet)](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-DynamoDB-blueviolet)
[![test: unit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Test-Unit-blue)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Test-Unit-blue)
[![test: integration](https://img.shields.io/badge/Test-Integration-yellow)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Test-Integration-yellow)

# Python: Amazon Api Gateway, AWS Lambda, Amazon DynamoDB Example

## Introduction
This project contains automated test sample code samples for serverless applications written in Python. The project demonstrates several techniques for executing tests including mocking, emulation and testing in the cloud specifically when interacting with the Amazon DynamoDB service. Based on current tooling, we recommend customers **focus on testing in the cloud** as much as possible. 

The project uses the [AWS Serverless Application Model](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) (SAM) CLI for configuration, testing and deployment. 

---

## Contents
- [Python: Amazon Api Gateway, AWS Lambda, Amazon DynamoDB Example](#python-amazon-api-gateway-aws-lambda-amazon-dynamodb-example)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Contents](#contents)
  - [Key Files in the Project](#key-files-in-the-project)
  - [Sample project description](#sample-project-description)
  - [Testing Data Considerations](#testing-data-considerations)
  - [Run the Unit Test](#run-the-unit-test)
  - [Run the Integration Test](#run-the-integration-test)
---

## Key Files in the Project
  - [app.py](src/app.py) - Lambda handler code to test
  - [template.yaml](template.yaml) - SAM script for deployment
  - [mock_test.py](tests/unit/mock_test.py) - Unit test using mocks
  - [test_api_gateway.py](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py) - Integration tests on a live stack
  
[Top](#contents)

---

## Sample project description

The sample project allows a user to call an API endpoint generate a custom "hello" message, and also tracks the messages it generates.  A user provides an "id", which the endpoint uses to look up the person's name associated with that id, and generates a message.  The message is recorded in DynamoDB and also returned to the caller:

![Event Sequence](img/sequence.png)

This project consists of an [API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/), a single [AWS Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda) function, and a [Amazon DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb) table.

The DynamoDB Table is a [single-table design](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/creating-a-single-table-design-with-amazon-dynamodb/), as both the name lookup and the message tracking use the same table. The table schema is defined as follows:
* For all records, the "Partition Key" is the id.
* For name records, the "Sort Key" is set to a constant = "NAME#"
* For message history records, the "Sort Key" is set to "TS#" appended with the current date-time stamp.
* The payloads are in a field named "data".


[Top](#contents)

---

## Testing Data Considerations

Data persistence brings additional testing considerations.

First, the data store must be pre-populated with data to test certain functionality.  In our example, we need a valid `id` to retrieve a name to test our function.  Therefore, we will add data to the data stores prior to running the tests.  This data seeding operation is performed in the test setup.  

Second, the data store will be populated as a side-effect of our testing.  In our example, items of recorded "Hello" messages will be populated in our DynamoDB table.  To prevent unintended side-effects, we will clean-up data generated during the test execution.  This data cleaning operation is performed in the test tear-down. 

Third, any identifying values should be unique to the specific test.  This will prevent 
collisions between tests should there be an issue with tear-down.  Each test can define
a unique postfix to prevent the issues.

[Top](#contents)

---

## Run the Unit Test
[mock_test.py](tests/unit/mock_test.py) 

In the [unit test](tests/unit/mock_test.py), all references and calls to the DynamoDB service [are mocked on line 18](tests/unit/mock_test.py#L20).

The unit test establishes the DYNAMODB_TABLE_NAME environment
variable that the Lambda function uses to reference the DynamoDB table.  DYNAMODB_TABLE_NAME is definied in the [setUp method of test class in mock_test.py](tests/unit/mock_test.py#L37-38).   


In a unit test, you must create a mocked version of the DynamoDB table.  The example approach in the [setUp method of test class in mock_test.py](tests/unit/mock_test.py#L43-50) reads in the DynamoDB table schema directly the [SAM Template](template.yaml) so that the definition is maintained in one place.  This simple technique works if there are no intrinsics (like !If or !Ref) in the resource properties for KeySchema, AttributeDefinitions, & BillingMode.  Once the mocked table is created, test data is populated.

With the mocked DynamoDB table created and the DYNAMODB_TABLE_NAME set to the mocked table name, the Lambda function will use the mocked DynamoDB table when executing.

The [unit test tear-down](tests/unit/mock_test.py#L61-66) removes the mocked DynamoDB table and clears the DYNAMODB_TABLE_NAME environment variable.

To run the unit test, execute the following
```shell
# Create and Activate a Python Virtual Environment
# One-time setup
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ pip3 install virtualenv
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ python3 -m venv venv
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ source ./venv/bin/activate

# install dependencies
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ pip3 install -r tests/requirements.txt

# run unit tests with mocks
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ python3 -m pytest -s tests/unit  -v
```

[Top](#contents)

---

## Run the Integration Test
[test_api_gateway.py](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py) 

For integration tests, the full stack is deployed before testing:
```shell
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ sam build
apigw-lambda-dynamodb$ sam deploy --guided
```
 
The [integration test](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py) setup determines both the [API endpoint](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py#L50-53) and the name of the [DynamoDB table](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py#L56-58) in the stack.  

The integration test then [populates data into the DyanamoDB table](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py#L66-70).

The [integration test tear-down](tests/integration/test_api_gateway.py#L73-87) removes the seed data, as well as data generated during the test.

To run the integration test, create the environment variable "AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME" with the name of the test stack, and execute the test.

```shell
# Set the environment variable AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME 
# to match the name of the stack you will test

apigw-lambda-dynamodb$  AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME=<stack-name> python -m pytest -s tests/integration -v
```

[Top](#contents)

---
